The company turned to the court as it wanted condonation for the late applications to renew the lapsed licences. It said there were special circumstances as the person who was responsible for applying for the renewal of the licences was ill and had left Fidelity’s employ. The person who had taken over had struggled to obtain the information in time regarding the various firearms and he was thus unable to apply for the renewal prior to it lapsing. But Judge Natvarlal Ranchod said the law was the law and a firearm licence had to be renewed before it lapsed. Fidelity told the court it was the largest security provider in the country and it had more than 8500 firearms, used by about 15000 qualified armed personnel. It purchases firearms as and when required, thus the firearm licences expire at different times. Fidelity had tried to apply for the renewal of the firearms in April, 2016, but the official at the Florida police station refused to accept it on the basis of a previous directive issued by the police in this regard. In terms of the law, a firearm owner must apply for the renewal of a firearm licence 90 days before it expires. Judge Ranchod referred to a Constitutional Court case involving the late renewal of firearms, where the SA Hunter’s Association’s application was turned down. In that case Justice Johan Froneman said: “It’s an offence to possess a firearm without a licence. Once it is obtained, one needs to renew it at least 90 days before the date of expiry. If that is done timeously, the licence remains valid until the application is decided.” Judge Froneman in that judgment said if this was not done and a licence expired, the possession of the firearm was illegal and constituted an offence. Judge Ranchod said the short answer to what must be done if a licence had terminated was that “the gun owner must get rid of it” - in the words of Judge Froneman. Judge Ranchod said Fidelity was not prevented from conducting its trade or from applying for a licence. However, it had to comply with the law in order to possess a firearm for the conduct of its business. There is a lot of confusion regarding the handing in of expired firearms and the capacity of the police to handle these firearms in its stores. This matter is due to return to court in August this year. Last year, the police estimated there were about 493000 firearms in the country that were unlicensed or for which the licence had expired. Pretoria News