Pretoria - The minister of Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma on Monday echoed the sentiment by President Cyril Ramaphosa to visualise the building of a smart new city in the future. She was addressing delegates from at least 36 cities across the continent during the two-day African Capital Cities Sustainability Forum at the CSIR. Dlamini-Zuma said erecting new cities even in other African countries would answer the question posed by Ramaphosa during the state of the nation address last week. The president asked whether it was not yet time to imagine the country with a smart city in the post-apartheid era. Expressing her wholehearted support behind the vision of a new smart city, Dlamini-Zuma said such a city must be resilient, inclusive, sustainable and should be where the happiness index of the people is high. She said new cities were a very rare sight on the continent and that she could only think of Abuja, built by the Nigerians after they attained independence. Africa, she said, was the fastest growing continent in terms of urbanisation in the world with the rural population expected to migrate to cities in the near future. She challenged delegates to ponder on how governments could complement urbanisation and rural development during their deliberations. "Rural development is about bringing infrastructure found in urban areas to rural areas,"she said. Delegates were also asked to think about ways to make cities safer, inclusive and resilient. They should also talk about new ways of doing agriculture, especially in cities which continue to attract the majority of the population. In 2050, Dlamini-Zuma said, there were possibilities that countries would be doing "vertical agriculture" in cities. Tshwane mayor Stevens Mokgalapa said: "Like most of Africa and other developing countries, South Africa is experiencing continuing urbanisation. The United Nations estimates that 71,3% of the South African population will live in urban areas by 2030, reaching nearly 80% by 2050." He said South Africa’s urban population was growing larger and younger with individuals continuing to move to cities in search of jobs. "Metros are growing twice as fast as other cities and towns, and they also have much higher average incomes (by about 40%) compared to South Africa as a whole," Mokgalapa said. Pretoria News