Pretoria - The 2020 African Capital Cities Sustainability Forum will possibly be outside South Africa for the first time since its inception in 2015. This came after mounting calls for other cities to consider taking the burden off the City of Tshwane, which has been the host for five consecutive years. Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa bought into the idea of rotating the forum among different capital cities. He said: "This is not the City of Tshwane capital property. It is not the monopoly of Tshwane. "We just kept it afloat so that it hasn't died for the last five years. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  "But now it is time to say that the five-year-old baby can now talk." He urged mayors from the 36 cities represented at the conference to take collective responsibility about the future of the event. "It must be taken somewhere next year. It is a continental forum. "It is based everywhere on the continent. "Sustainability is about longevity and longevity is about collective responsibility," Mokgalapa said. The efficient use of resources by cities to meet the needs of the people was foregrounded as one of the significant issues of sustainability. MMC for Finance Mare-lise Fourie, who participated in a panel discussing finance and governance for sustainable cities, said cities were the custodians of public assets. "We are not here because we are important but because we serve the needs of the people," she said. She highlighted the importance of incorporating good ethical values into governance by municipalities' leaders. According to her, the values for good governance included transparency in handling the public purse and competence in doing work needed to be achieved. She remarked that public participation before the city could come up with service delivery priorities was of paramount importance. Pretoria News