This comes after Water and Sanitation Deputy Minister David Mahlobo visited the Rooiwal and Temba water treatment plants along with Tshwane and provincial officials on Monday. “With regards to the Rooiwal Wastewater Treatment Works, deputy minister Mahlobo noted that the treatment works is over- capacitated and evidently poorly operated and maintained. “As a result, poor quality effluent is discharged into the Apies River which feeds into the Leeukraal Dam. The Leeukraal dam is a source of water for Hammanskraal,” the department said. “The water that is abstracted from the Leekraal Dam and treated at Temba Water Treatment Works was on a number of occasions found to be non-compliant with the South African drinking water standards. This was also confirmed by the results of the joint sampling that was tested by the CSIR, under the direction of the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC).” Separate water sample tests by the CSIR and the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse found that drinking water in Hammanskraal was unsafe and contained bacteria. Outa threatened legal action, demanding that the city act after the findings. Angry residents in Hammanskraal and surrounding areas embarked on a series of violent protests last year against the poor quality of their water supply. Tankers have since been used to distribute drinking water to residents. The commission found that by not supplying clean drinking water, the city violated residents’ human rights. Public hearings with the affected communities have been planned by the department and the SAHRC. Dates for the hearings are due to be announced. Utility Services member of mayoral committee Abel Tau said the walkabout provided valuable insight about the challenges and solutions in the provision of potable water and effective treatment of effluent. Tau reiterated that “the city remained committed to providing quality services to all, including the communities of Hammanskraal. It is imperative that a common understanding and approach be forged in engaging with the affected communities”. “The city looks forward to the community engagement tomorrow when the city, the Department of Water and Sanitation and the Human Rights Commission jointly, provide feedback on the quality of water supplied in Hammanskraal,” Tau said. African News Agency (ANA) Pretoria News