IT’S BACK to school on Wednesday, and the weekend saw parents tied up with shopping for school uniforms and stationery. This, as the holidays come to an end and the country is called upon to hit the ground running – meaning it’s work time for parents and learning time for children. Mary’s Outfitters, a popular choice for parents on a budget, was packed to capacity at the weekend. Parents and their children were in queues snaking on to the pavement. Inside, parents searched through shelves for the right colour and size for their little ones. Also busy were stores like Pep selling basic clothes, and specialist school retailers and uniform shops set up at schools across the capital. Some who sought to avoid the queues by buying early had to come back. One such customer, Katlego Mabena, was at the store to make an exchange. The 33-year-old said she bought uniforms before the holidays but her children had grown since. Mabena said she spent about R1 000 on uniforms for her two children. “I think I’ll be spending the same amount on stationery,” she said as she left, on the look-out for bargains. Another customer was Tumelo Tjatyi who had come from Mpumalanga, and when he was done he had spent close to R30 000 on uniforms and stationery for his family but also to donate to an organisation that took care of orphans. He said he bought the items as a way of giving back to the community, and would donate to an organisation that housed orphans. Patricia Sibanda was happy that she managed to get everything needed for her daughter who will be starting Grade R. She had a budget of R1 000. Store manager Salmaan Dockrat said it was busy because of the earlier start to the school year. He said their good reputation for quality and price meant many customers returned. Mphumzi and Xolile Mbangata went to Shoprite Checkers to buy stationery for their trio in Grade 1, 5 and 7, and said the total cost was R1 500. Raymond Qhubeka and his son Mlondolozi were at Centurion Mall shopping for the boy’s boarding school needs, and, they said, they had a budget of R2 000 for the first term. Shopping tips: Cheap is not always better value for money. Be sure to inspect the quality of the fabric and seams of the clothing before buying. Browse online platforms and compare prices.  Choose good quality footwear so your children do not hurt their feet (and you have to go and buy other shoes). Make a list of everything you need so you don’t buy unnecessary items. Be firm with your children on what they need versus what they want. Children grow fast so buy only what is needed for summer now. Get the winter school uniform later in the year. 