The construction of the rank is a partnership between Redefine Properties and the City of Tshwane. The world class facility is to be built on the corner of Hendrik Verwoerd Drive and South Street on land owned by the City. It will accommodate commuters, vendors and public transport operators, who have complained of being crammed in a smaller area nearby after the former rank was replaced with a corporate building. Scrap metal dealers and other petty thieves are said to have stripped the fencing, poles and gates off bit by bit since it was put up to demarcate and secure the area to build the facility. The rank had been scheduled for construction in September last year, but was delayed due to fear of dolomite underneath. But yesterday authorities said they would be upgrading security to ensure the site was safe and secure ahead of construction, billed to start at the end of this month, and to be completed by the end of the year. Ward councillor Peter Sutton said the City was awaiting a report from geologists to ensure construction would be on stable ground, before the fence would be re-erected, private security hired and work started on the taxi rank. “There are still concerns around stormwater and dolomite management, and the Department of Transport is busy resolving this matter,” Sutton said, adding that once that was out of the way and an agreement had been signed with the City it would be all systems go. The new facility would bring for commuters, transport operators including taxis and buses, and street vendors easier commuting, comfortable shelter, offices, informal trader stalls, public toilets and free wi-fi. It would also provide the safety and security commuters and other users craved since the relocation from the older taxi rank site. During a visit to the temporary rank commuters told the Pretoria News of their constant fear of being mugged; the dangers the uneven, unpaved ground posed, including falling and breaking limbs and damage to vehicles; and they said that when it rained there was nowhere to go for cover, as the temporary facility had no structures. The also complained of dust and wading through puddles of water, for commuters and vendors plying their trade, including those who sold food. Sinkholes have been a major concern in Centurion and Pretoria, with several areas - some close to the site of the new taxi rank - having to be cordoned off, much to the inconvenience of motorists and businesses, as the City sought to fix the holes. Sutton was optimistic that construction would get under way soon. “The taxi rank construction is an approved council resolution and it will continue,” he said. The construction contract was sitting with the City manager awaiting his signature, which would allow construction to start once the green light was given. Upon completion, the taxi rank would boast numerous shelters, taxi holding areas and route lanes, he said. Sutton remained in full support of the taxi rank and looked forward to seeing the dignity of commuters restored with a world class taxi facility. Region 4 informal traders chairperson, Philemon Mofamate, said he hoped the rank would improve conditions for traders. “They are currently using cardboard boxes and crates,” he said, adding that they hoped the new construction would provide them with actual stalls from which to sell goods. Taxi drivers also said they could not wait for the rank to be finished so they could hit the ground running.