Starting in Grade R or Grade 1 is an emotional experience for children and their parents. While some handled the big day with aplomb, others found it tough having to say goodbye to parents so there were some tears and tantrums. For others still, the excitement was so exhausting they nodded off at their desks. Fortunately, teachers were well prepared and with parents taking photos out of the way, classes could settle down and the children had time to get to know one another and their new environment. For another group starting high school, yesterday also marked a significant day in their lives. Unlike their Grade 1 counterparts, they perhaps could not let nerves get the better of them - or at least show it. Many of the schools in Tshwane - which include some of the best in the province - filled up fast when online registration for grades 1 and 8 opened last year. But, yesterday, there were still groups of desperate parents at various district offices trying to register their children. Gauteng MEC for Education, Panyaza Lesufi, said the province had been inundated with late applications but urged parents not to panic all children would be placed in due course. Most parents had completed the registration process on time with less than 6% of 282823 applications for the 2019 school year withdrawn because parents had not responded to follow-ups from the department on time. These were among around 16000 late applications still being processed this week, Lesufi explained. Most of the province’s schools are at capacity, and cannot handle any new applications so places have to be found in other schools, sometimes further from a child’s home. Meanwhile, with Day One over, from today teaching can be expected to take place, if it has not already started, and it won’t be long before the books need covering and the first homework is assigned. Lesufi and Gauteng Premier David Makhura yesterday opened the Menzi Primary School in Ekurhuleni, a R105million facility with modern classrooms for children in grades R to 7. During an earlier school readiness briefing, he said the province had borrowed close on R8.5billion to get rid of the remaining 17 mobile and asbestos schools over the next five years. While Gauteng was one of the few provinces to meet minimum standards of school infrastructure, he described the state of some schools as “embarrassing”. Three new schools have been built in Tshwane - one in Centurion, one in Soshanguve and one in Ekangala, east of Cullinan. See page 3 and 4