Ambulances were barred from entering the township which was barricaded with debris, boulders and burning tyres as a result of an overnight protest. The woman in a her mid-30s lay helplessly on the wheelbarrow, padded with blankets, sweating furiously and breathing heavily. Two men pushed the wheelbarrow. One man was carefully ferrying her while the other held an umbrella over her to protect her from the scorching sun. Behind them were three women - one her sister crying. After fighting to navigate through protesters hurling stones and police shooting rubber bullets, the woman was whisked away by an ambulance from the R55. Both entrances to Sunderland Ridge on the R55 in Centurion were blocked by the protesters, causing severe traffic jams. The protests were related to service delivery grievances in Mooiplaats and the illegal occupation of RDP houses in Olievenhoutbosch Extension 27. It was also about a missing child; residents want authorities to track down the child who went missing last week. The circumstances around the child’s disappearance are not yet clear. Protesters pelted police and motorists with rocks while police fired back with rubber bullets, tear gas and stun grenades. Pupils were also barred from attending school because of the violence. A police nyala was tipped over by protesters, and although unharmed, police had to be dragged out of the vehicle. The protest is centred around the allocation of about 5000 RDP houses, with many residents claiming that people from outside their community have been given keys. “We were here first. We are waiting for houses,” an angry resident told the Pretoria News. “The heart of the matter is that people are unhappy that others are moving to their area and will be receiving houses before we do.” The livid residents say they would not stop until President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed them. Petrus Chabalala, chairperson of the SA National Civic Organisation (Sanco) in the area, said several government officials, including Gauteng Premier David Makhura, had failed them. “We want the president to come to see us since his delegates have failed us,” he said. The Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, last year ordered that residents of Olievenhoutbosch, who illegally occupied the RDP houses meant for residents of Mooiplaats informal settlement, should be evicted by the end of June. Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela said no arrest were made.