Khanyile will only be allowed out to attend university and must take part in eight hours of community service every month for the duration of the sentence. Khanyile was also ordered to pay a fine of R5000 or face three years’ imprisonment, both of which were suspended for five years. The courtroom was overflowing with the popular EFF student leader’s supporters, friends and family, with supporters also gathered outside the courthouse, as had been the case at previous appearances. Magistrate Siphiwe Hlophe said Khanyile was facing serious charges, and although protesting was the right of students, it was of concern that studies had been disrupted. Free education was a good cause, he said, “but vandalism is not”. Khanyile’s legal representative, advocate Danie Combrink, told the court the social worker assigned to Khanyile found him to be remorseful for his actions, despite what police Colonel Langa Mhlongo had said in aggravation of sentence. Mhlongo is a cluster commander in the South African Police Services and was leading a unit investigating #FeesMustFall cases. He told the court Khanyile had shown no respect for police officers during the violent and destructive protests, and had instead incited other protesters to “attack” police. Khanyile had also been quoted in the media as saying he was only pleading guilty to “confuse the enemy”, said Mhlongo. Khanyile had refused to have his fingerprints taken and had threatened police, saying he would “come for” them. Combrink told the court the appropriate redress would be admitting Khanyile into a community service programme with the goal of rehabilitation, or a suspended sentence. His client was not able to afford a fine, he said. As someone who was influential in the community, Khanyile could be a force for good. Senior public prosecutor Roshiela Benimadho said that with more acts of public violence occurring in the country, citizens would be looking to the court to ensure appropriate punishment was handed down. Video evidence had shown Khanyile had scant regard for the police, she said, as he had incited other protesting students to “moer” them. She said that because Khanyile had used a slingshot to attack police, it showed that his actions were premeditated. There needed to be “zero tolerance” to protests that turned violent, she said.