Pretoria - Workers at the embattled Optimum and Koornfontein coal mines in Mpumalanga on Wednesday marched from Marabastad to the Union Buildings, where they demanded that government take over the mines' operations. Disgruntled workers affiliated to the National Union of Mineworkers bitterly complained that they have not received their salaries for the past three months. Highveld's union chairperson Nelson Ratshoshi said that the operations at the mines were halted from last year in February. He called for government to take over the running of the mines after the Gupta family lost ownership and operating rights. He appealed to President Cyril Ramaphosa to urgently intervene in order to save their jobs. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  "The main reason for the march is that people have been living without getting their salaries for three months. "In November and December they never received their salaries and now it is January. These people are hungry; they can faint at any time," he said. He said that workers wanted the government to play the same central role in played in 2015 when it facilitated the purchase of the mine to Tegeta Exploration and Resources - a company linked to the Gupta family. Ratshoshi said: "We are calling on government to take over the running of the mining operation." He also hinted that the march might have a negative effect on the electioneering campaigns by the ANC. "It is just unfortunate that this is happening during the year of the elections," he said. He said the union expected at least 5000 workers to descend on the Capital City but due to transport problems beyond their control many of them failed to pitch. Worker Johannes Mabena, who has been working there for 35 years, said he was struggling to make a living since the operations at the mines were stopped. "I am adversely affected by the situation because I have children who expect me to buy food for them. They are now going to school and they need school uniforms and school fees. My debit orders are also outstanding because there is no money in the bank," he said. Ratshotshi put the blame on the business rescue practitioners overseeing the operations. He said a South African consortium called Project Halo won a bid to buy Optimum Coal Mine, Koornfontein Mine and Optimum Coal Terminal for R3.05 billion from Tegeta Exploration and Resources. Ratshoshi expressed worries that the mines could be vandalised by criminals, who would steal power cables if the government doesn't urgently come on board. "The situation will allow criminality to take place. People will soon start to steal cables from there," he said. - Pretoria News