The youngsters were joined by their friends and classmates as they socialised outside the school building, and reminisced about the year 2018. They spoke happily about their journey ahead, and said they hoped to start enjoying their lives a bit more instead of keeping their heads buried in their books. Isaacs said his headache used to be about finding a healthy balance between academics, his social life and other recreational activities, but as of yesterday, his only stress was deciding where to study medicine. The 18-year-old got nine distinctions and ranked among the top 5% of national IEB students with exceptional results in five subjects. He said he might stay in Pretoria and enrol at the University of Pretoria, to be closer to his family in Garsfontein. “I worked very hard last year to achieve these results, but I think the most important thing was finding a balance between academics and everything else. You don’t want to forget to live, but at the same time you shouldn’t play so much that you forget to push yourself harder. “I am happy with my career choice and believe I will enjoy being a doctor and helping people. It’s a profession that requires qualities I already demonstrate: discipline and dedication.” Kwinana was happy scoring six distinctions that made the school and her family proud. The 18-year-old from Blue Valley Golf Estate, Midrand, said she could not wait to start her BCom degree studies in international business at Stellenbosch University. “I am so excited for this degree because it is also new at the university, and they only admitted a limited number of students. When I was admitted I felt like God was telling me it was the right career for me. “There will also be an exchange programme whereby I will be able to go and study abroad at an international university.” The youngster said she couldn’t have made it without the support of her family, school staff and classmates who showed great commitment and support. Her school achieved a 100% pass rate, and 309 distinctions from a sum of 133 students.