Yesterday, as part of the back-to-school campaign, he and Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi visited the area north of Pretoria, paying special attention to the schools the victims attended. He reiterated the province’s focus on township schools, telling principals, teachers, parents and pupils who had gathered at the community hall in Block X that the department would be improving the quality of foundation phase education in particular. He encouraged the community to keep the memory of the five children alive by focusing on education and remaining to be disciplined at school. The five - Kearabile Baloyi, 12; Boitsoko Pobape, 11; Maikano Mmenu and Lethabo Matibako, both 9; and Dimpho Bopape, 5 -died after the steel ring of the mast which provides light in the area fell unexpectedly on November 4, 2017, on where they were playing. “We are the future. Now one can stop us,” were some of the enthusiastic screams of pupils that could be heard coming from the Block X community hall. Addressing the pupils, Lesufi said matric results obtained by the class of 2018 demonstrated the stakeholders' efforts at improving education for all children in the province. He said other provinces bore witness to the improvement of education in the province under Makhura’s leadership. With most Gauteng high schools achieving above 80% in the matric final exams, Lesufi said it was time to prioritise improving Grade Rs and primary schools' performance. “Never in the history of our country has it been as it is now that you will have township schools performing better than Model C schools. “We can boast that 15 out of the 18 best performing districts come from Gauteng.” He said, however, that moving forward they would be looking at modernising all primary schools in the community, especially starting in Soshanguve. Makhura said that for years stakeholders had prioritised high schools to improve their performance, and they had finally ensured that 77% of the schools were performing above the 80% mark. He said plenty of effort and resources had been channelled into township schools. That was part of why the improved results were being witnessed now. Makhura said this year they had taken the decision to deal with the foundation phase. This was because they felt principals and teachers in primary schools were not given the same support and had become too relaxed. “We’re not going to wait until they reach high schools. "If we want sound education for the future of our children we must start working on Grades 1 to 7 now.” He said they would be looking at the performance of schools, with the three schools being their pilot project. The premier encouraged the community to work with the government as disruption of the academic calendar over service delivery issues was something that should not be tolerated. “We must not allow the disruption of our education as that disruption is to spoil the future. "We need to ring-fence education and make it clear that our children must go to school.” The community members must not allow criminals to take the ICT systems put in place for the benefit of the children, he said. Makhura maintained that as he had adopted the schools he would personally monitor their progress and conduct unannounced visits from time to time.