The department expressed concern that water - allegedly contaminated - posed a risk to residents, animals and agricultural activities in the capital. A department official said in court papers: “The failure of the respondent (the city) to keep the wastewater treatment and processing machinery operational has a direct negative impact on the function of the city’s sewer systems.” It affected drinking and irrigation water quality, posing a health risk to humans and livestock, he said. The city conceded there were problems, but said it was trying its best to address these. Budget constraints and vandalising of equipment made its task very difficult, it argued. These problems had been in the making for the past eight years, the city said. It questioned why the department now, over the festive season, rushed to court to obtain an urgent interdict. Mapula Khuduga of the department said in an affidavit that waste water treatment challenges had been encountered since 2010 at the Rooiwal, Klipgat, Baviaanspoort and Sunderland Ridge treatment plants. He said raw or partially treated sewage was being discharged into the Apies, Tolwane, Pienaars and Hennops rivers affecting drinking water supply systems around the city and other surrounding communities. All these areas fall under the City of Tshwane. Khuduga said it had urged the city since 2010 to put in more efforts to improve the quality of effluent flowing into especially the Apies River as partially treated sewage was being discharged into this river. Inspections over the years revealed the problem also persisted at other waste treatment plants, which was subsequently discharged into the rivers. Khuduga charged that the city had over a period of time failed to take reasonable measures to prevent the pollution from continuing. This was in spite of directives put in place and meetings on the subject. One of the problems was that the Rooiwal plant discharged raw sewerage downstream and caused water pollution which affected drinking water at the Temba Water Treatment Works. The sludge handling facilities could not handle the volume of sludge produced at the works and 16 water filters were not operating. It was concluded that Rooiwal continued to pollute the Apies River with partially treated sewage and poor sludge management. Similar problems were experienced at the Klipgat treatment plant, which received waste water from Ga-Rankuwa, Mabopane and some parts of Winterveldt and Soshanguve. Khuduga said recent inspections proved that these problems persisted. “There is no alternative remedy available to the applicant to stop the respondent’s unlawful water use activities than asking the court’s immediate intervention,” Khuduga said. Simon Sithole of the city’s legal department responded that it was not true that the City was doing nothing about these problems. There were ongoing problems and as soon as one problem was fixed, another arose, he said. Some of the problems included the theft of equipment, electric cables as well as load shedding. Sithole said the urgent court was not the forum to address these issues, as AfriForum had launched a similar application against the city, which will be heard on February 7. He denied that raw sewerage was being discharged from any of the treatment plants, but did acknowledge that the water is “either partially treated or not 100% to the required standards”. Sithole said the treatment plants needed continuous maintenance but due to all the challenges, this was not always possible. He said the court could not order the city to cease the discharge of liquid - the only way was if the treatment plant stopped taking in more effluent from the areas it served. He said if the pipes were closed off to prevent the effluent going into the treatment works, it would mean that the waste would simply back-up into the systems and emerge out of manhole covers. This could cause devastating consequences for nearby residents. Judge Dawie Fourie removed the matter from the roll before the court recess on technical grounds.