Mongezi Mbatha, 17, and Rowan Crafford, 18, of the Prinshof School for Partially Sighted and Blind, were honoured by Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga at a breakfast function at Vodacom World in Midrand. She released the national results at the same venue later in the day. The Prinshof pair were among 29 matriculants countrywide to be honoured by Motshekga at an event to not only celebrate success, but also highlight the challenges pupils must overcome on the path to success. “It was a surprise, I didn’t expect such a thing to happen,” said Crafford. The pair, who have been friends since Grade 8, plan to continue working together, as they intend studying together at the University of Pretoria. Mbatha wants to study informatics while Crafford’s focus will be on language. “When I was much younger, I don’t remember which grade I was in, I saw this ceremony (honouring matrics) on TV and just said to myself that I want to be there in future, but didn’t think it would actually happen,” said Mbatha. His mother, Londiwe, was all smiles as she spoke highly of her son and couldn’t contain her delight. “I’m really proud of my son, I’m overwhelmed with joy, I don’t even have words to explain how I’m feeling,” she said. The proud mother said her son began to shine when he got to a school that catered to his special needs. “He was really struggling, he was slow in taking notes because he couldn’t see properly on the board, and no one paid attention to his needs,” she said. “After we moved him to a special school (Prinshof), that’s when he started flourishing.” Motshekga, who refrained from giving a long speech, kept her words short and said the day was not about her, but about the matrics. “You are not here because of miracles, you are here because you worked for it,” she said. “So, thank you.” Those present knew they were special, but were not privy to their actual results. For that, they, like all the other matrics, had to wait until this morning. African News Agency (ANA)