Unisa spokesperson Martin Ramotshela said the university had extended the registration for undergraduate qualifications, including undergraduate higher certificates, diplomas and degrees, advanced certificates, advanced diplomas, BTech and postgraduate certificates. The first week of registrations on January 7 was interrupted after the SRC shut down all campuses over the exclusion of new students and accreditation woes, among other complaints. National SRC president Wadzanani Mazhetese at the time said they had taken the decision to shut down the university after it excluded 120000 students due to limited space. Thus was a decision the student representatives felt was impossible, as Mazhetese said they were of the belief that a distance learning institution could not turn away students. The university then announced that following discussions with the student leaders they would consider an additional 25000 students. The move was questioned by stakeholders who were concerned about the university’s capacity to handle the extra load without any budget increases. Furthermore the SRC raised issues over the cancellation of close to 50 qualifications by the university, despite there being students who registered. Hundreds, if not thousands of prospective students, could be seen loitering around the university’s Sunnyside campus during the first week looking for answers. With regards to issues of decommissioned courses, Ramotshela admitted an error was made by the university. He said management had already done work to ensure that some of the courses were accredited by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). “We made the mistake of loading some programmes on the system which had not been accredited yet. But the university management has since intervened and had engagements with the Council of Higher Education and the SAQA. “However, we can confirm that some of the qualifications have been re-accredited with offers made to students. "As for the remaining courses, once re-accredited, the information will be provided to students.” The demand for the provision of laptops and textbook allowances for students was something that is to be dealt with by the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (Nsfas) bursary, Ramotshela explained. He urged prospective students to ensure they had made the initial minimum payment by tomorrow in order to finalise their registrations. “We urge all students to register as soon as possible and not to wait for the final date of January 31,” he urged.