Emergency services put the toll at three dead. Gauteng Roads and Transport MEC Ismail Vadi described the area in which the crash occurred as being on the “problematic” north corridor where vandalism and cable theft affected the safety of the train service. Grobler Street was a hive of activity yesterday as Tshwane Emergency Services, ambulances, metro police and the SAPS assisted passengers trapped inside coaches after a moving train collided with a stationary one at 9am. Gauteng Metrorail spokesperson Lillian Mofokeng said two commuters were confirmed dead immediately. The others died later. President Cyril Ramaphosa said he learnt with sadness of the accident and sent his condolences to the families of the victims. Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga, who arrived on the scene soon after the crash, said he did not want to speculate on the cause, but he had previously raised concerns regarding the railway infrastructure, in particular the north corridor, which seemed to have outdated core signals and was accident-prone. “This corridor in particular reports accidents every year, and I think this is something that needs to receive some serious attention from Prasa.” Msimanga called for an urgent meeting with Prasa to discuss upgrades. Vavi said he hoped communities faced the sad reality that where cables are stolen, lives are put at risk. “Prasa is not within our jurisdiction but we really have to step up operations here because the infrastructure is old and ageing and we can’t have a situation where there is crash every six months.” Authorities and emergency services worked to free commuters who were trapped in the second train and take the injured to hospitals. The bodies of those trapped underneath the train were taken to the mortuary. Mofokeng said that from information at their disposal, 11 commuters sustained serious injuries, 545 had minor injuries and 61 were moderately injured. She said the estimated damage was close to R21million for infrastructure and rolling stock. With schools opening today, Vadi advised commuters to arrange alternative transport. Although Prasa would be providing 18 buses to try to ferry those with monthly coupons along the railway route, this would not be enough to cater for all commuters. “I can’t see this track being open by tonight (last night) as the wreckage still needs to be removed and there might be damage to the rail line. So we appeal for them to make arrangements in the short term,” Vadi said.