This was revealed by Carel Zietsman, the lawyer for the Wild for Life Rehabilitation Centre who took Mufasa in after he was confiscated from a family in Pretoria by law enforcement agencies in 2015. The family had been keeping Mufasa as a pet, without having the necessary permit. Mufasa is a 3-year-old white lion, a breed which is relatively rare worldwide. There are estimated to be fewer than 300 white lions left, with just 13 living in the wild. The Department of Rural, Environment and Agricultural Development in North West wanted the lion handed over to it so it could pass him on to an auctioneering house for sale. “We believe Mufasa and Suraya (another lion in the rehabilitation centre) have the right to live the rest of their natural lives in a sanctuary where they will be as close to free as is possible,” said Zietsman. Mufasa and Suraya had since formed a bond and should not be separated, he said. But according to Zietsman, a mystery donor from the US has been in negotiations with the North West department regarding the future of Mufasa. “They have decided to step in and help with funding. “The lawyers are working on the contract,” he said. They had requested anonymity until matters were finalised. In addition to the donor, Zietsman also said they had a life care agreement with two lion farms in the Eastern Cape that were willing to care for Mufasa and Suraya together. He said $37000 (R513000) from the foreign donor would go towards building a camp and perimeter security to keep the lions safe from poaching. “The only thing we need is for the department to sign the export permit for this to happen. “Everything else is in place,” Zietsman said. They had brought a review application to court. While this was pending an online campaign to save the lion had generated more than 300 000 signatures of support. Zietsman said he believed the North West government had a moral and legal obligation to protect Mufasa and not allow him to be sold on auction where he could end up being shot by a trophy hunter in a canned hunt. “The only commercial value he has is to be hunted in a put-and-chase hunt, otherwise known as a ‘canned hunt’.”