Before he had time to unpack, he was on a flight to Durban as the guest of the ANC for the launch of its election manifesto and an opportunity to meet President Cyril Ramaphosa and a number of his cabinet ministers. While in the port city, he also visited the Toyota factory where the Quantam Sesfikile, the 16-seaters which make up most of our urban taxis, are built, and Sumitomo Rubber, the manufacturer of Dunlop tyres. Attending to Japanese companies doing business in South Africa is part of his diary, as is getting to know colleagues in the diplomatic community and civic society. Among those he has met in his first few days since taking over from Shigeyuki Hiroki were members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations ambassadors group, with a meeting on Tuesday with Chinese ambassador Lin Songtian. Not only do the pair represent two of the world’s top three economies, both with great interest in Africa, but they are old friends, having worked together when each served as their country’s director-general for African affairs. He has also held the key position of spokesman of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. On a visit to the Department of International Relations and Co-operation, he happened to greet ambassador Beryl Sisulu, a former ambassador to Japan whom he also knows. He believes these coincidences, along with finding other diplomats in the city whose paths he has crossed before, are a sign that he is being welcomed by South Africa. Another early meeting was with one of Pretoria’s most senior and respected diplomats, Russian ambassador Mikhail Petrakov, with whom he said he shares a love of classical music and wine, and a classical concert is where one may find Maruyama when he needs some down-time, especially as his wife has remained in Japan to take care of elderly parents. This experienced career diplomat, who has served his country in many portfolios, is looking forward to attending the opening of Parliament and State of the Nation address next month, and presenting his credentials soon. His country will host South Africa at a number of international events this year, including the G20 Summit being held for the first time in Japan, and TICAD7 (the Tokyo International Conference on African Development) - as well as the 2019 Rugby World Cup later in the year. For Murayama there are many opportunities ahead for Japan and South Africa to strengthen collaboration and to deepen person-to-person relations and dependencies, and he looks forward to contributing to that mission.