DA leader Mmusi Maimane has accused the ANC of copying their election campaign slogan ahead of the elections later this year while on a walkabout in Mamelodi this morning. He says the DA was the first to use the phrase "one South Africa for all". He also had a message about the ANC’s failure to create jobs. He said that government must create jobs if it’s serious about changing the life of ordinary South Africans. In his address to Mamelodi residents Maimane said: ‘’Lack of service delivery shows that there is a crisis in the area” he also encouraged the residents of Mamelodi to register to vote saying “the power is in the hands of ordinary citizens to change South Africa and that power can be demonstrated on January 25 and 26 when they register to vote”. Maimane accused the Freedom Front Plus, ANC and the EFF of racially dividing South Africans by stating the racial groups they are representing. He said that the DA seeks to build a South Africa for all. He added that if they cannot change the government nationally they will do in local government, so that people will know that they have a government that works in their interests. Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga condemned the drivers who stop in the middle of the road and parking in areas when are not supposed to. He said taxi drivers who are taking commuters to the area stop there for over 30 minutes. He said that the city of Tshwane is building a holding area for taxis in the city. One resident from Nellmapius who applied for an RDP house said he has been waiting since 1998 despite having documentation. He said every time he seeks clarity no one is willing to provide any assistance. The city mayor said they are currently investigating the matter of how RDP houses were allocated. He said that the information on allocation of RDP houses has to be public to eliminate corruption. Msimanga added that currently the city has already managed to attract investment. One investment which is concluded is a deal with the South African Motor Corporation which will lead to the expansion of Ford which will create 4000 jobs. He added that the new mall that is being built will also create more jobs in the area.