While the Non-Academic Staff Association’s Mpho Morolane said workers have been handed contracts, the EFF said nothing has changed. The issue of contracts date back to two decades ago with staff claiming they have worked for the home for more than 20 years without employment contracts. They also made allegations of racism, the abuse of patients by management, being underpaid, and more. In August, disgruntled nurses, volunteers, chefs and cleaners went on a three-day strike, led by the EFF with police keeping watch. It came on the heels of another protest in March. Mampuru Monamudi of the EFF said: “Nothing has been resolved yet and we are just waiting for January then we are definitely going back there.” Asked about the possible strike, Monamudi said: “Workers might have to strike again because their issues remain unresolved. “The contracts that they were handed recently are the same contracts that made them go on strike in the first place.” Morolane said there were conflicting views, which were a problem. “We worked on the contracts with the lawyers of the home but there was a guy from the EFF who went there and gave a different direction. “But we told the workers to tell us if there were any queries. Workers also formed part of the discussions as well. As far as I’m concerned the contracts explain what should be in a contract of employment. “But there seems to be confusion in a sense that this guy who is a councillor of the EFF causes us to speak in parallels which seems to be problematic,” he told the Pretoria News last week. “If workers feel they want to be assisted by a political party we don’t have a problem but what we don’t want is people interfering with what we’ve done.” He conceded that salaries remained unchanged. Workers told the Pretoria News in March that some of them earned less than R2000 a month. The Social Development MEC, Nandi Mayathula-Khoza, called for an urgent investigation into the home in August. Following continuous disruption of services, Morolane said the department had not come back to them with an answer. “There were no investigations and the conditions are still the same; there is no improvement whatsoever.” Mayathula-Khoza asked for a full report with solid evidence on all allegations labelled against the centre, which led to employees going on strike. She asked for the report during her visit to the centre. She said she could only come up with an action plan to resolve the issues once a report has been compiled.