The memorial service for couple Dick and Sarah Sekoma, 39 and 38, was held together with that of 61-year-old Samuel Baloyi. They lost their lives when trains travelling along the same line on the Pretoria-Mabopane crashed into each other last week. From the onset, tension could be cut with a knife at the Forward in Faith Church in Soshanguve. The programme had only the Sekoma couple's photo and speakers, which irritated the Baloyis. Another turn-off for the Baloyis was the amount of time speakers for the Sekoma family were allowed compared with theirs. Snide remarks and vile comments were hurled at each other for the first part of the service up until peace was eventually restored. Stories were told about the Sekoma couple. Family representative Tsakane Nkumane described them as loving and supportive towards each other, and more importantly, to their children. “They were the epitome of what and how love should be,” she said. They also loved people, and that was evident in the big family they had.” The couple leave behind six children; Boitumelo 18, Paulinah 16, David 12, Sonia, 7, Brendan 6 and Gontse, 3. The eldest daughter, Boitumelo, cried uncontrollably, causing a ripple effect on younger sisters Paulinah and Brendan. Samuel Baloyi's widow had been released early from hospital to bury her husband. She sat with her crutches beside her as she fought back tears while stories of her husband were being told. Neighbour and friend Sophy Malepeng described Baloyi as a funny and carefree man who always asked him for money. “I will miss the good old days where Ntate Sam asked me for money. He liked bothering me, saying the more you give, the more you gain,” she chuckled. His widow stared down for most of the proceedings. Metrorail provincial manager Goodman Matampi asked the community to help them with the fight against cable theft at the railway stations. “It's the very same people in our communities that steal cables and create incidents like these. In Mamelodi, cable theft was so rife that we had to stop services. If we are not going to transport our commuters safely, we might as well not do it at all.” He took responsibility for the incident saying the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa would take care of the family financially and emotionally, through the Department of Social Development. In addition to that, he warned the two families that when the payouts eventually came, they should put the money to good use. “Take the children to school. Use the money effectively, and don't go around splurging to extended family members.” The two families will hold separate funerals tomorrow in Soshanguve.