They had arrived at the Odi, Mabopane, offices hoping to leave with confirmation they could take their children to school. However, the parents and guardians were fuming when they were greeted with a notice at the Tshwane West District saying they could not be assisted due to a lack of water in the area. The notice read: “Due to no water in the Odi area, we unfortunately have to close the gates for the public on any queries. We humbly apologise for any inconvenience caused.” This was too much for the already frustrated parents, who said they were growing more desperate by the day. “We don’t want your water; we want placements for our children. We used money to come here. Not being assisted each time we get here is frustrating,” one of the parents, who did not want to be named, yelled at the security guards. It was said that the area has been without water since last Thursday. Ledile Mashiane, one of the parents who was inside the premises, said that due to a lack of water, they were given forms to fill in and told to leave them at the district office. “They said they will try their best to place the children. We are leaving without 100% certainty. But we understand why they said we should leave. “The place is starting to smell due to bathrooms being used without any water. No one should work in such an environment,” she said. But the same could not be said about Elisa Ntini, who went to the district with her son already clad in the Amandasig Secondary School uniform. She said they were beyond frustrated with being sent from pillar to post. Ntini and her son Ikgomotseng, 13, registered online last June and appealed when they did not receive a response. “After the appeal we received a confirmation email that I am going to Amandasig,” Ikgomotseng said. Ntini said all was well until they went to the school last week and found that they were not on the list. “When they said we are not on the list we came back here only to be told that somebody made a mistake, and that we were not supposed to have been placed at Amandasig. "They told us that our email was received by everyone in the department and the person made a mistake,” she said. She demanded that her son, who is going to Grade 8, be placed at the school as they had already bought the full uniform. “The uniform cost R1100 and we will not accept any other school because we already bought everything and it is branded." Just last week, Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said parents should not worry, their children would be placed. But parents and their children continued to cry foul, saying the system had left them stranded.