But on Friday, the pupil living with albinism was put in the spotlight for the right reasons. The Filadelphia School in Soshanguve matriculant was named one of the three best pupils in schools for Learners with Special Education Needs (LSEN) from across the country at an awards ceremony by Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. LSEN specialises in teaching pupils suffering from cerebral palsy, physical and intellectual disabilities, and the 18-year-old was one of numerous pupils at the Gauteng Matric Awards at Unisa, hosted by the Department of Education. He said living with albinism had its obvious downside - the stares, the nasty remarks and the myths. But for him as a pupil his biggest challenge was his eyesight and reading, studying at night or during load shedding. “I have sort of become immune to the stares and nasty remarks. I’ve learnt to live with that. It’s the eyes that are a constant problem for me,” he said. He either had to light up the room he was studying in, making it very bright or hold the textbook close to his eyes, he said. “The problem is the font of the words, maybe if they made them bigger it could work for us,” he said. Magabane said that coupled with the reading aspect was some unsupportive members of the community. “Some really wanted me to do badly in my studies and rejoiced every time I faced challenges. “They wanted to stick it to my family that their child was a disappointment.” The soft-spoken Magabane will study Accounting Sciences at Wits, and was amped for the new challenge. “New environment, new students; I can’t wait,” he said. On advice to matriculants this year, Magabane said: “Find what works for you. Try yourself out. Are you a visual or audible learner. Mind maps or reading out loud type of person. Explore yourself,” he said. Another piece of solid advice he gave was to start being serious from the very first test. He said that although people knew a lot more about albinism, the regularity with which he encountered misconceptions was a great cause of frustration. It stemmed from the archaic belief that those with albinism have magical powers to the mistaken belief that they were a separate race. Despite maturing into a remarkably self-assured teenager, the painful memories manifested as a pink blush on his skin. About one out of every 4000 South Africans is living with albinism. Although the dangers aren’t as great in South Africa as for those in countries such as Tanzania, Kenya and Zimbabwe, people with albinism still struggle with stigma and discrimination.