Pretoria - It's all systems go for the final registration drive this coming weekend ahead of the national and provincial elections expected to be held in May, said Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) CEO Sy Mamabolo. He said the commission hoped to have more people flocking to the 22 925 voting stations which will be open from 8am to 5pm on Saturday and Sunday. There are 26 million people on the voters' roll and 55% of them are women and 45% were men. Mamabolo said the commission was eager to get more young people registering on the voters' roll. Following this weekend's voter registration, special registration drives would be rolled out at tertiary institutions in February with a view to woo more young people, he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Regarding the readiness of the commission, he said: "Each voting station will be stocked with registration forms in all official languages. there will also be maps of the ward to help voters locate their place of residence and copies of the current voters roll along with various stationery items and sign boards," he said. All South African voters in possession of a barcoded IDs and smart card IDs can register in the wards where they reside. People can call 0800 118000 to find out about geographical boundaries of the place where they live. "After this weekend, voters can update their details online," Mamabolo said. He, however, said that once the election date has been proclaimed by the president the voters' roll would be sealed. Offenders in Correctional Services Department facilities would get an opportunity to also register for elections. IEC chairperson Glen Mashinini said the purpose of the briefing was to inform all South Africans that the commission was ready to conduct the voter registration throughout the country. "The commission welcomes the signing of the political party funding Act by President Cyril Ramaphosa," he said. He also made a clarion call to young people to take advantage of this weekend's voters' registration drive. "Over 70% of eligible voters in South Africa are registered. We have 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote who are not registered. We appeal to young people to come forward and register to participate in the election," Mashinini said.