But there may still be parents whose children have not been placed in Grade 1 or 8, and the Department of Education has urged parents to get their documentation submitted urgently this week. All pupils in Grade 1 and 8 are placed by the department, after parents have registered online. Schools reopen on Wednesday, and Gauteng department spokesperson Steve Mabona said they were ready. In an effort to alleviate pressure in Centurion, the newly built Centurion Primary will be used temporarily to accommodate all unplaced Grade 8 pupils in the area, he said. The department’s initial date of October for registrations was extended to November and then again to January. Mabona said officials had been working tirelessly to ensure placements were completed on time, but there are always latecomers. At last count, he said the department had received a total of 282823 applications for Grade 1 and Grade 8, with 266371 of these placed and accepted. The department had extended the late applications deadline to January 7 (today) and Mabona said they had processed 12039 late applications by Friday. In some cases they were waiting for outstanding documentation, including birth certificates, parents’ identity documents, proof of work or home address and so on. Late registration was open to those who still had to apply, and those who for some reason - such as moving - forfeited a placement offered earlier. Now parents can only apply for schools which have space: they cannot insist on their child attending a school which is already fully subscribed. When the applications first opened places at some popular schools were taken within hours. It was reported at the weekend that major changes are coming to schooling in South Africa, with an announcement expected from President Cyril Ramaphosa in the State of the Nation Address, and more detail in Finance Minister Tito Mboweni’s Budget. Pre-school education is likely to become compulsory and all children will have access to electronic devices, with digitised learning materials, and computer-related subjects such as coding introduced into the primary school curriculum. Technology driven learning has been introduced in Gauteng - and has been credited with the province’s improved performance in the matric results. Another intervention hailed as increasing the matric pass rate to 78.2% - with Gauteng’s at 87.9% - is the additional classes held on weekends and during school holidays. These additional classes are likely to continue in 2019.