He should thus face the music for his part, said Timol’s nephew, Imtiaz Cajee, in an affidavit filed with the high court in Johannesburg this week. Last month he was admitted as a party to the proceedings launched by the 80-year-old Rodrigues for a permanent stay of prosecution. The application is due to be heard on January 28. Rodrigues was charged for his role in the murder and with defeating the ends of justice for the death of the anti-apartheid activist. Timol died on October 27, 1971, while he was in police detention at the then-notorious John Vorster Square in Johannesburg. Rodrigues was the last person with Timol in room 1026 when he plunged to his death from the window on the 10th floor. The Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, during the re-opening of the inquest last year, concluded that Timol did not commit suicide, but that he was murdered. Judge Billy Mothle recommended that Rodrigues be charged as he was not honest with the court during his evidence. Rodrigues, however, wanted the charges dropped as he claimed his prosecution was unfair due to the delay of more than 47 years in charging him. He was adamant that he did tell the truth in court about Timol jumping to his death. Cajee, meanwhile, in his affidavit, said he and his family were also victims of Timol’s death and of the apartheid era. He said it was an emotional day for them when the court last year ruled that his uncle was murdered and that Rodrigues should face the consequences in court. He said those behind the heinous acts of violence committed against several anti-apartheid activists during the apartheid era, including Neil Aggett and Moses Mabelane, have been shielded from justice for long enough. “Most of the perpetrators, including Rodrigues, refused to participate in the truth and reconciliation process. If they had, they could have provided the families and nation with much-needed answers and closure We were only interested in the truth. We sought no vengeance,” Cajee said. He concluded that while Rodrigues and others chose to remain mum, the law had to follow its course and Rodrigues should be prosecuted.