Their blessings came in the form of Minister of Home Affairs Dr Siyabonga Cwele, Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa and executive mayor Solly Msimanga, who visited Mamelodi Hospital and showered them with gifts and facilitated the immediate registration of their babies. Nokuthula Maseko’s baby girl, Kutlwano, and Jane Khumalo’s son, Kamogelo, were among the 106 babies - 69 of them girls and 37 boys - delivered at various public health facilities in Gauteng by lunchtime yesterday. Chris Hani Baragwanath hospital scooped the highest number again this year with 22 deliveries, followed by Kalafong hospital with 13. Ramokgopa presented birth certificates to the mothers and gave them gift packs which included nappies and blankets. They took turns to hold the infants, and sang happy birthday to them. And while they were there, another “baby” was successfully delivered. Speaking at the maternity unit, Ramokgopa encouraged mothers to focus on giving their babies the best in life. “The birth of a baby is a special moment in most families... Take care of your kids and make sure that they receive all the necessary health care they need. And remember that the first 1000 days of a baby’s life are crucial, and the baby should be handled with utmost care.” Ramokgopa concluded the visit by announcing that 10 doctors would join the facility. “I chose to visit Mamelodi Hospital because of all the problems the hospital is facing. I am pleased to announce today that 10 additional doctors will soon join the hospital and there are also projects to extend clinics within the hospital,” she said. Msimanga urged fathers to play a part in their children’s lives. He said during his Christmas visit to newborns, as well as yesterday’s visit to welcome New Year’s babies, he did not meet any of the fathers. He urged men to support the mothers, and take an interest in their babies from the start of their lives, and continue it through their childhood. Cwele congratulated the new mothers on giving birth to healthy babies. “Our aim as government is to ensure that babies are registered and issued with birth certificates shortly after birth, for collection of vital statistics which are important for planning and service delivery.” He called on foreigners expecting babies to regularise their status in the country to help manage migration. Cwele also called on them to bring their identity documents to hospitals when they gave birth, saying he had received complaints from hospital staff that some foreigners provided fraudulent documents. Maseko, 18, could not contain her happiness when her daughter, Kutlwano, born around 1am, received her birth certificate. The mother of two said: “I’m over the moon. I gave birth to a healthy baby girl and I can’t even explain how I feel right now.” She added that the immediate registration would save them both time.