Last year marked the 25th year of diplomatic relations between the two countries and the relationship has been special indeed, with multiple high-level visits from India to South Africa. A high point was the very warm meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Cyril Ramaphosa at the time of the 10th BRICS Summit hosted by South Africa in July last year. The two leaders held a repeat meeting on the margins of the G20 in Argentina in November. The economic partnership is robust, there are more than 150 Indian companies based out of South Africa with an investment of $10billion (R138bn) employing close to 20000 locals. Importantly, skills and capacity building are part of the package. Many of our companies - Tata, Mahindra and Zensar, to name just a few - train young South Africans at their corporate offices back in India and plug these now-employable youths into their respective work streams in South Africa. Incidentally, this ready and helping hand from the Indian companies speaks to and responds to President Ramaphosa’s YES programme. There is equally robust co-operation in the science and technology sectors. Indian scientists are playing a key role in the design and development of the prestigious Square Kilometre Array (SKA) project located in the Northern Karoo in South Africa, aside from working on myriad grass-roots innovation projects with South African scientists which will benefit our two countries and people. And with the resolution last year of the Denel impasse that has hitherto held back defence co-operation, the two countries are poised for new beginnings that will benefit this strategic partnership. What, however, lends character and quality to the India-South Africa story is the rich cultural and people-to-people contacts between our two countries. The story goes back in time to when the first Indians arrived in South Africa aboard the SS Truro at Port Durban in 1860. And when in 1893 Gandhi ji was thrown from a whites-only train carriage on to the freezing ground at Pietermaritzburg railway station because of the colour of his skin, he ignited the most powerful weapon the world has seen: born in the mind, felt in the heart, free in the spirit of peace. While Gandhi ji was born in India, satyagraha was born in South Africa. It was his commitment to satyagraha which brought India its freedom in 1947. Several anti-apartheid campaigns were modelled around Gandhi’s notion of non-violent resistance and strength. For Nelson Mandela in South Africa, his name inspired the same compassion and allowed Madiba to become the Father of his Nation. Last year was therefore undoubtedly a beautiful year for commemoration, observing as we did Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday and the 150th anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi, which started off in India on October 2 and will continue until October 2, 2020. This remarkable double celebration was commemorated in 2018 through Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Cyril Ramaphosa releasing stamps on the two peace icons, in the course of their bilateral meeting in the margins of the BRICS Summit. Going forward and in tribute to Gandhi150 and Mandela100, we look forward to inaugurating our flagship project of 2018: the Gandhi Mandela Centre of Specialisation for Artisan Skills which will be based out of TVET College, Tshwane South Campus, Pretoria. To be inaugurated in April 2019, the centre holds the promise to plug the skills gap through quality vocational training in identified sectors to meet the requirement of youth in South Africa, both semi-skilled and unskilled. The project, which is a pilot in South Africa, is fully funded and sponsored by the government of India. It responds to the emphasis that both Gandhi and Mandela placed on education as the cornerstone of an enlightened existence. Quite rightly, Madiba said education was the most powerful weapon one could use to change the world. I am delighted to add, and based off this rich cultural heritage that binds our two countries together, that President Cyril Ramaphosa will be in India today and tomorrow as our chief guest for India’s 70th Republic Day Parade. He is only the second head of state from South Africa after Nelson Mandela to accept this honour. Does this get better? And as our two countries march onwards and forwards in the year of Gandhi150 and Madiba100, we look forward with voices of passion and dedication to a future of excellence. The India-South Africa partnership is indeed timeless.  Kamboj is the High Commissioner of India to South Africa. She writes in her personal capacity.