After a rough start to registration last week following student protests, Unisa is finally getting things going. Spokesperson Thomas Huma said everything had proceeded well with the online registrations following the calling off of a national shutdown by the SRC at the weekend. Huma said there were no problems with the system or assisting some of the students who went to the various campuses for assistance. However, DA spokesperson for higher education Belinda Bozzoli has called on Minister of Higher Education and Training Naledi Pandor to explain Unisa’s decision to come to an agreement with the SRC to allow an additional intake of 25000 prospective students. Bozzoli said the DA was sceptical about it, and wanted the university to explain how exactly it would be able to fund and be capacitated for the additional students. Another question was whether the Department of Higher Education and Training would be providing Unisa with proper support. She said while the DA fully supported the right of students to access higher education, it wanted the minister to explain how the university had been permitted to accept the additional students despite strict agreements between the department and universities on the number of students they may admit. “This increase is extremely large and is the equivalent of the total first-year admissions to Wits, the University of Cape Town, the University of Johannesburg and Stellenbosch combined. So this will need to be funded on multiple levels.” However, Huma said even though the university had agreed to the additional students, it had still not reached its permitted headcount. “We are yet to even reach the initial count we’ve been permitted by the department. And some students may fall out even before we get to that number. All we’re saying is we will see how many more students we can accommodate.” Even with no walk-ins being allowed at the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) campuses around the city, hundreds of would-be students flocked to the main campus in Pretoria West as well as Soshanguve yesterday. University spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said their system went off-line in the morning but by the afternoon everything had been fixed and it was up and running again. “We had a bit of a problem with the online registration initially but everything is back and students can continue to register online."