As of tomorrow the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) will officially be opening a walk-in centre to help commuters involved in the train crash at Mountain View Station. Mountain View although devoid of any commuters going in and out, remained a hive of activity as technical teams got underway with repair work. Behind myriad of police tape cordoning off the entrance, men and women clad in yellow reflector vests could be seen watering and sweeping up the platform. Work to hoist the damaged trains off the rail line could also be seen by midday. Gauteng Rail spokesperson, Lillian Mofokeng, said the unforeseen rainy weather conditions had delayed the teams’ progress in the afternoon following the crash to clear the accident scene. But that work had commenced in the morning. She further explained that the Metrorail management had analysed the number of train commuters that had already bought weekly and monthly tickets and had decided to increase the number of buses available from the initial number of 18 to 30 buses which had been contracted in the interim to assist the affected corridors. “Not all commuters will accommodated on the 30 available contracted buses and in the best interest of loyal customers an interim train service has been made available for the affected corridors.” Mofokeng detailed that shuttle trains from Mabopane and DeWildt would be ending off at the Pretoria North Station. A bus service will operate between Pretoria North and Hercules stations. Shuttle trains will operate from Pretoria Station moving towards the northern part of Pretoria and end off at Hercules station. And finally shuttle train services will according to Mofokeng operate between Belle Ombre and Hercules. “Only commuters with valid monthly and weekly train tickets will be accommodated and no new train tickets on the affected corridors will be sold until the lines reopen.” “A walk-in centre will be set up at Pretoria Station for commuters who were involved in the accident for assistance and support with effect from Thursday.” Three people died and over 600 commuters had to be transported by buses to hospitals around the city after two trains collided at Mountain View station around 9am on Tuesday. According to officials the exact cause or details of the accident were unknown, save for information that one train was hit from behind by another train whilst stationary at the platform. However stakeholders following the incident sighted the need for urgent intervention to be considered for the north corridor which was burdened by poor maintenance, cable theft and vandalism.