On Monday night, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga blasted the ANC Youth League for claiming that he had lied when he said the church was not compliant with the City’s regulations. Msimanga, through his spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi, said the claims were deeply disturbing. The allegations were also not in the interests of ensuring that the church was brought up to code following an in loco inspection conducted last week, the mayor said. According to the ANC Youth League, Msimanga deliberately lied in the aftermath of the stampede at the church - which claimed three lives - when he said its premises were non-compliant with fire and emergency by-laws. “We wish to remind Mr Msimanga as we have done numerous times before, that indeed lies have short legs. "Mr Msimanga lied to the people of Tshwane and South Africa in a press statement that the building used by the church is non compliant with regulations. “We have proof in the form of a [compliance] certificate that was handed over to the church by City officials,” said ANC Youth League regional chairperson Lesego Makhubela, who is also the ANC caucus spokesperson in council. “The certificate gave the church permission to host an event on December 31. "We are disgusted by these lies and view this as opportunistic, senseless and insensitive to the families who lost loved ones during a stampede at that church in December.” The SAPS is investigating the circumstances around the death of the three female congregants at the church on December 28 during a reported stampede. A case of defeating the ends of justice has been opened against the church, relating to the removal of the bodies from the church premises. Makhubela said Msimanga should take the blame for the lack of police officers at the venue where thousands of people gather several days every week. “We are further convinced that Mr Msimanga used these lies to shield a relative whom he has employed as the chief of Tshwane metro police [Johanna Nkomo]. "The relative who shares the same surname as Mr Msimanga’s mother is not even qualified to be the chief of the Tshwane metro police department. "She was bulldozed into this position because of nepotism,” said Makhubela. He said the ANC Youth League was against calls for the church to be removed from the venue, formerly known as the Pretoria showgrounds, which it rented out for worship by congregants. “We believe in the Constitution. What the DA is doing in Tshwane is similar to what that corrupt funny man [Joburg mayor] Herman Mashaba is doing promoting xenophobia. "The church is led by a black person, followed by multitudes of black people. "The talk that he [Bushiri] should go back to Malawi is xenophobic and we are against it. "That church has a compliance certificate from the City and nothing prohibits it from continuing with their gatherings,” Makhubela said. “There is nothing in [the] law stopping the church from continuing with its services. "Our stance is that we respect legislation. There is freedom of association, religion and opinion. "We’re not going to try and be populist and attack churches of black people. That is backwardness. "It promotes anarchy, and black on black violence. Such irresponsible utterances have cost lives in this country.” On Saturday the church countered Msimanga’s assertions, arguing that its premises were compliant with fire and safety regulations and that there was proof of this. The compliance certificates have been shared on social media and in news publications - including one issued by the City two days after the stampede. But Mgobozi countered: “At no point did the City dispute any permissions by the church. "The City maintains that as late as last week when the inspection was done we made some concerning observations. We are optimistic that the church will address these to ensure that we do everything possible to ensure we prevent the loss of life and limb. “What the ANC is doing is once again politicising the deaths of Tshwane residents it claims to be acting on behalf of. "It is cheap, insensitive and devoid of class or any moral leadership. These sorts of tactics have become synonymous with the ANC in Tshwane. “Making Tshwane a safer place for residents, including congregants, is a priority of the City. This is what we are preoccupied with.” Mgobozi said the City bore no ill will to the prophet or his church. The City merely wanted to ensure safety which "was a common interest between the church and ourselves". “This is obviously not a concern shared by the ANC, blinded by its singular, narrow-minded dislike of the mayor.” African News Agency (ANA)