According to the SA Municipal Workers Union (Samwu), Mosola has suspended officials who questioned the legality of providing him with security. On Monday, the union took up the matter on behalf of the suspended workers with Mosola executive mayor Solly Msimanga and Community Safety MMC Anniruth Kissoonduth. Samwu regional secretary Mpho Tladinyane said workers raised complaints with the union because they believed the instruction was unlawful. He said the instruction was made by Mosola to the chief of the Tshwane Metro Police Department, Johanna Nkomo, who then ordered the officers stationed at Region 3 to implement it. However, when the officers refused to obey the order, their reactions were characterised as insubordination, and they were “harshly dealt with”, said Tladinyane. “Their crime was to state that Mosola was not entitled to security,” he said. Tladinyane expressed workers' concerns in a letter he wrote to Mosola, Msimanga, Kissoonduth and Housing and Human Settlements MMC Mandla Nkomo. “It is our considered view (as Samwu) that the provision of security for employees and a certain category of politicians is subject to regulations,” he wrote. He said the employees alleged that Nkomo issued an instruction to a metro police director known as Minnaar to provide security at Mosola's residence. “Director Minnaar subsequently instructed officers in Region 3 to carry out the order from the chief of the metro police. It’s on record that all those officers who indicated that the instruction was unlawful since the city manager was not entitled to security were harshly dealt with,” he said. He said the union had asked for clarity from supervisors on the provision of security at private residences, including the necessary documentation, but it was not provided. The union inquired from Nkomo whether the metro police had, through the SAPS, conducted a risk assessment and what the outcome was. “Has an appropriate forum such as the mayoral committee or council approved the provision of such security?” asked Tladinyane. He said the union demanded that the city responded within five working days to the questions. “Failing a response, Samwu will consider a recourse, including approaching the public protector,” he said. Kissoonduth, meanwhile, said he was aware of the issues raised by the union. He said the provision of security to individuals was an administrative function, which was given to those whose lives were under threat. He said the situation was not unheard of - there had been two other people who enjoyed the same benefits. “What I know is that if you are under threat you are entitled to get it. It is a temporary arrangement and not a permanent thing,” he said. Kissoonduth said he still wanted to establish the facts around Mosola's security claims. “I am still waiting for the results on the reasoning for the arrangement,” he said. Metro police spokesperson, senior superintendent Isaac Mahamba, said: “These are employment and operational matters of which the city is not in a position to make public at this stage. In this regard, we won't comment for now.” Mosola was at the centre of various scandals in the past year. He was implicated in the award of the R12billion GladAfrica tender without following procedures, a matter which has strained relations between him and the outgoing executive mayor. Unions have also accused him of flouting recruitment policies to get rid of senior officials he dislikes. He has until the end of this week to respond to the allegations.