This is the lead character in The Ignored Flow, a dance production featuring Katlego Moncho. The courageous hard-hitting dance piece aims to raise awareness on the urgency of free sanitary pads for teenage girls. The Pretoria News yesterday caught up with Moncho, ahead of the premiere tomorrow at the South African State Theatre. She spoke boldly about playing the character almost half her age. “The 15-year-old could not afford to buy enough sanitary towels to last her 10 days' menstruation period. "As a result, this affected her self-esteem. During class she would be laughed at by peers for walking funny. “She’s a strong girl who goes through a lot, but she finds solutions to the issues. “For girls at Masechaba’s age, the solution would be to hide until the problem disappears. But she is courageous to finally break her silence and restores her self-esteem and dignity. “She speaks not for herself alone but for many other young girls who are facing the same challenges,” the 28-year-old Moncho said. “Women in this country are always seen as imbokodo and she embodies that at a very young age. If you would take her struggle and her power and put it in today’s 15-year-olds, they won’t know what to do.” The production is written and directed by the talented Nkamogeleng Lebeloane. She said: “I am passionate about the future generation, especially the girl child. "It is very clear that condoms and lubricants are free in our country, but pads are not. However, sex is prioritised over the female’s overall well-being!” The production also took part in the 2018 Youth Expressions Festival where it awed audiences with its moving storyline through dance. It is part of the Incubator Programme funded by the Department of Arts and Culture. The programme is designed to accelerate the successful transition of semi-professional entrepreneurial artists through an array of business, technical and artistic mentorships. It runs from tomorrow up to February 17, with daily performances between Tuesdays and Sundays. Tickets cost R80.