Visiting grieving families yesterday, Msimanga, accompanied by Tshwane Metro Police Department spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba, said he failed to understand how in this modern world an accident like this had occurred. “There are so many questions. We will try to find answers. This is a very sad moment. There is very little we can do,” said Msimanga. “We came here to convey our condolences to the families. It is sad the manner in which they died.” He started at the Sekoma house in Block M, where Dick and Sarah Sekoma, 38 and 39, lost their lives while taking their eldest child to register at Tshwane University of Technology. More than 600 people were injured. Msimanga consoled the family members before moving to the Baloyi household; Samuel Baloyi, 61, was killed in the crash, which also left his wife Johanna injured. During Msimanga's visit, the families indicated areas where they would like the city to give assistance. The mayor said: “As per their requests, the DA-led multi-party administration will arrange six buses, two mobile toilets, a minibus and Metro Police escort.” Msimanga said he trusted that with such contribution, the funeral services would proceed smoothly and that the departed would get a dignified send-off. “We will work with the family to ensure that our brother gets a proper send-off.” In addition to financial assistance, they would also receive psychological help from social workers. Msimanga said he would be providing support to the families during the Saturday service. Representative of the Baloyi family, Lucky Baloyi, said they were coping and satisfied that the Passenger Railway Agency of South Africa (Prasa) was supportive. He said his aunt had been discharged from hospital to be with the family, and would be readmitted after the burial. “I thank the Mayor of Tshwane for being here it shows that we did not lose alone, we lost as a community; this shows that there is support in the community as well.” Msimanga said the city would fast-track the completion of the house that the Baloyi family had started building in December. Last week, the Rail Safety Regulator released a damning preliminary report, which reflected that a communication breakdown and the use of manual signalling were the cause of the crash. The report also stated that the signalling system had given problems since November. Both trains were travelling along the same line on the Pretoria-Mabopane route when they crashed into each other.