Yesterday ANC regional leader Dr Kgosi Maepa, who also headed its caucus in council, said his party would not nominate a mayoral candidate. “For now, we are going to let the coalition and everyone else run the City. We have divorced ourselves from the situation of getting involved in governance. We will remain the opposition until 2021 (the next municipal elections),” he said. Meanwhile, the race within the DA will come to a close on the eve of the much-anticipated council sitting. On Friday, the selection panel conducted interviews with four candidates shortlisted from the 11 applicants vying to succeed Solly Msimanga as executive mayor. DA provincial party chairperson Mike Moriarty said those shortlisted were Tshwane council speaker Katlego Mathebe, MMC for Finance Mare-Lise Fourie, MMC for Economic Development and Spatial Planning Randall Williams and party MP Stevens Mokgalapa. They had applied to become the party’s mayoral candidate after Msimanga’s announcement that he would resign early next month. Msimanga, who has been at the political helm of the municipality for two years, said he wanted to focus on his campaign to be Gauteng premier before the general elections. Moriarty hinted yesterday that the name of the party’s mayoral candidate was likely to be disclosed tomorrow. He told the Pretoria News that shortlisted candidates performed online tests in addition to undergoing interviews by the selection panel. “Online tests have been written by candidates and submitted to external moderators, who will provide the scores within 24 hours. As far as I know, the results of the scores are not yet out,” he said. Moderators would, at a later stage, make available the scores to members of the selection panel, who would make recommendations to the federal executive, he said. The executive would take a final decision on the successful candidate. “There is still three days to go before the name of the favourite candidate could be made,” Moriarty said. MMC for Human Settlements Mandla Nkomo, who was touted as the favourite candidate for king-makers in the council, dismissed media reports that suggested he had applied for the position. He said media reports implied that he did not make the shortlist - insinuating that he had applied. “I did not apply nor did I ever have ambitions of becoming the executive mayor of Tshwane. This administration needs someone with an impeccable leadership and managerial experience to be able to take the city forward, because that is what the residents of the city deserve. The work that still needs to be done cannot be underestimated,” Nkomo said.