It has been a part of the local education landscape for the past 29 years, boasting 34 higher education campuses and 37 TVET (technical and vocational education and training) campuses nationally, and more than 300000 alumni who have completed a range of qualifications. At a time or rising costs, it is one of South Africa's most affordable higher education institutions. The institution is registered with the Department of Higher Education as a private higher education and training provider; is accredited by the Council on Higher Education, Umalusi and numerous sector education and training authorities. It has also aligned its product offerings to the Quality Council on Trades and Occupations. Richfield has earned a reputation among employers and industry organisations for outstanding performance in the education sector, and its accomplishments include awards for business growth, community engagement, customer focus, economic development, gender empowerment and business education and training. Richfield is a pioneer in the use of technology. It’s strategy includes the Tablet/PC, Moodle Learner Management System, digital content creation studios, refocusing learning from the lecturer to the student, and embodying digital technology in the curriculum. Richfield has become a knowledge powerhouse and has won several international awards for “perfection, quality and ideal performance” to “sustainability”, “quality achievements” and “technology integration”. The criteria include excellence in integrating student loans, use of technology and its student management system; management of academic programming and application of intellectual and technological innovations. The quality of its educational services is recognised in South Africa by regulatory agencies and Richfield practises voluntary compliance with international standards. It recently won the National Business of the Year Award. Richfield has helped thousands of graduates enter the job market. This year it is offering Pretoria News readers the chance to win a bursary for study. I See page 4.