The influx of motorists through various toll plazas around the City of Tshwane is expected to rise by this afternoon. Many holiday makers will be making their way back to the Jacaranda City to return to work and school. TMPD spokesperson Isaac Mahamba said over 2000 vehicles per hour went through the Pumulani Plaza on the N1 at one stage on Sunday, and a larger amount is expected today. “Some people are still salvaging their holidays and leaving everything to the last minute. A large volume of motorists will be seen tomorrow as schools open on Wednesday and parents have to do last minute shopping,” he said. Mahamba was also concerned about the number of transgressions on the roads. Chief among those were the number of people caught driving with their cellphones. “Just this festive season alone we nabbed over 20 000. It’s worrying that motorists are not adhering to the law,” he said. Hundreds of motorists, truck drivers and pedestrians were nabbed for various offences and hundreds of road traffic offences by the Tshwane metro police over the festive season. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  “About 238 400 road traffic offences were recorded and 188 people were arrested – 78 drivers for drunk driving and 98 pedestrians for various offences,” spokesperson Senior Superintendent Mahamba said. The arrests and traffic violations were recorded during the metro police’s crime prevention and by-law enforcement operations. He said about 216 620 speeding fines were captured by fixed cameras during December. A total of 880 fines were issued for overloading of goods and passengers and another 20 908 traffic tickets were issued for the use of cellphones while driving, disobeying traffic signs, vehicle defects and inconsiderate driving. He said according to his knowledge, the number of motor accidents and deaths countrywide had dropped, but said the minister will reveal all the stats mid-January.