Judge Preller, cited in December by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng as among those facing complaints, said in papers before the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that he had already delivered the judgments he reserved in 2007 and 2008. The two further judgments, outstanding since 2015, were also in the meantime delivered, he said. But in a recent letter from the Judicial Service Commission, it was stated that two judgments “were not delivered to date”. A Judicial Service Commission conduct tribunal was set up to investigate the complaints. But Judge Preller has now obtained an order that the complaints over the two judgments be referred back to the Judicial Conduct Committee for reconsideration as he was not aware of the complaints nor had he been given a chance to defend himself. He said during a pre-hearing meeting of the tribunal in August last year into the “outstanding” 2007 and 2008 judgments, it was indicated that all the judges who were in hot water for not delivering some judgments would present evidence about the “extraordinary workload” in the Pretoria division of the high court. “It was indicated to the tribunal that I had suffered from severe depression at a relevant stage, and that I was in the process of obtaining expert evidence regarding the effect of depression and its long-term consequences,” Judge Preller said. After this meeting, he said, he did everything in his power to ensure expert opinions be obtained in time for the next hearing, as the matter was at the time postponed indefinitely. Meanwhile, the secretary of the conduct tribunal phoned him to make arrangements to deliver documents. He was at the high court looking for the judge, but as he had retired in 2015, he could not find him. The documents related to the complaints against him over the “outstanding” 2007 and 2008 judgments. Added to these complaints were two judgments reserved in 2015 - a month after he had retired as a judge. But he had written these two judgments in 2017 and personally took them to the office of the judge president at court. Judge Preller said he believed these judgments were then handed down on his behalf. He said he was unaware of the complaints regarding the 2015 judgments as it emerged that the tribunal secretary kept on sending the letters to the wrong address. He also did not attend subsequent hearings as he never received any notice of these. The tribunal concluded that he wanted to remain mum about the allegations. But Judge Preller said this was far from the truth as he wanted to state his case but he was never aware of the meetings as the correspondence never reached him.