Yesterday afternoon, 1600 vehicles an hour were passing through the Mooi River toll plaza as the last of the holidaymakers headed back to Gauteng from KwaZulu-Natal. Also busy was the N1 with returning traffic from the north. The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) said it would continue to monitor all major roads to prevent more deaths on the roads. This comes after Transport Minister Blade Nzimande announced a 16% increase in road deaths for December 2018 compared to the same time the previous year. Provisional figures announced by the minister showed that up to 800 people had died on the roads before Christmas. He flagged speeding and drunk driving as major contributors. Police Minister Bheki Cele also highlighted alcohol abuse as being at the centre of crime and accidents over the holiday period. “The figures we get on deaths on the road are associated with alcohol. The figures we get on (drowning) are also associated (with alcohol). The figures we get on the abuse of women and children are also associated with alcohol, especially with those who abuse it. “It is a source of evil and a source of crime,” Cele said in Cape Town last week. Simon Zwane, spokesperson for the RTMC, said yesterday that the agency was expecting heavy traffic through the major toll plazas in light of many businesses reopening today and schools nationwide reopening on Wednesday. Two weeks ago, the Transport Education Training Authority (Teta) launched a campaign to get motorists to rest on long journeys, so as to help cut down on the risk of accidents. The campaign particularly targets taxi drivers and other long-distance operators. owing to the high number of travellers using its services during this time of the year. Teta spokesperson Sabelo Mbuku said: “Fatigue does result in some of these roads accidents, and also speeding and drunk driving. “Those are the issues that are common in the accidents that we have witnessed.” Nzimande along with the Drive Dry initiative, were due to monitor traffic on the N1. Drive Dry aims to educate the public about the dangers of drinking and driving, using chilling visuals and content of its consequences. “In South Africa, approximately 6000 people are killed every year by drunk drivers. "We hope to help change this figure by showing these chilling visuals and content.” The RTMC is also hoping to see changes in driving laws, including the revision of the K53 as one of the measures to minimise road deaths. Among the proposals is that drivers be retested every time they renew their licences.