However, there is a specific form of dismissal deemed by the act in terms of Section 187 to be automatically unfair. If it is proved that an employee is dismissed for any reasons outlined by Section 187, then the remedy would be to reinstate the individual unless the individual did not wish to be reinstated but had requested damages. Damages can be granted up to the equivalent of 24 months’ salary. If the employee participated in, or supported, or indicated an intention to participate in, or support, a strike or protest that complied with the Labour Relations Act and that person was dismissed, it would be automatically unfair. If the employee refused or indicated an intention to refuse to do any work normally done by an employee who at the time was taking part in a strike that complied with the Labour Relations Act (unless that work was necessary to prevent danger to life, personal safety or health), then a dismissal would be automatically unfair. If the employee is exercising a Labour Relations Act right and the employer takes disciplinary action and dismisses the employee, that employee will have a case for automatically unfair dismissal against the employer. If the employees’ pregnancy, intended pregnancy or any reason related to her pregnancy is used in a dismissal it would be automatically unfair. If the employer unfairly discriminates against any employee, directly or indirectly, on any arbitrary ground, including race, gender, sex, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, conscience, belief, political opinion, culture, language, marital status or family responsibility, such a dismissal would be deemed unfair. Also, if a transfer from one business to another leads to an em- ployee’s dismissal, it is unfair. The Labour Relations Act allows employees to join or belong to a union of their choice. If any action is taken against employees for joining a union then such an action would be deemed unfair dismissal. Any dismissal because of an employee exercising any right or participating in any proceedings in terms of the Labour Relations Act would be deemed unfair. A hotly contested area of automatically unfair dismissal is dismissal during legal strikes. There is a distinction between protected and unprotected strikes. The protected strike is legal, and all employees are entitled to engage in it even if they are not in a union. Obviously unfair, illgal actions taken by employees while on strike could lead to disciplinary hearings and dismissals. They will not be dismissed because they are on strike, but because they are acting illegally while on strike. Victimisation is rife in the workplace. And to institute any sort of action against an employee for exercising their rights would be an act of victimisation and automatically be deemed an unfair dismissal.