Julian Knight said he was first going to study the reasons given by the minister yesterday for the refusal for parole before making any decisions about the way forward. “I was fully expecting a negative decision. The minister latches on to any negativity to ignore the fact that all the reports stated that Walus’s chances of re-offending is minimal.” Knight earlier this week said that if the minister again declined to place Walus on parole, he would again turn to court. This time we will apply for direct access to the Constitutional Court.” At the time, he said this deadline for the decision had passed early in January, but he had given Masutha a reprieve until tomorrow to make his decision. Masutha said he was a bit late in making his decision due to the fact that his office only received the representations from the Hani family and the SACP on January 8. In turning down the appeal, Masutha said Walus had not shown remorse for the 1993 killing of SACP leader Chris Hani. The minister turned down Walus's bid for parole and added that there was a possibility he could re-offend. He said there were conflicting reports between Walus’s psychologist and that of the State on whether the Pole was ready to face the outside world. He said he had considered the contradictions and it was difficult for him to make a decision on the suitability for placement on parole now. Masutha came to the decision that the two experts had to jointly assess Walus and file a joint report on the issues regarding the risk of re-offending and remorse. “It is directed that a further profile be submitted within six months of this decision (to refuse parole) for my consideration. The offender should undergo individual psychotherapy with the psychologist to assist in addressing the challenges highlighted in the report of Dr Zelda Buitendag. The challenges include depression, suicidal thoughts and anger episodes.” Buitendag, Walus’s psychologist, said in a report that the offender had made some progress and was showing signs of remorse. She also said he suffered from depression and had experienced explosive anger episodes. Shane Govender, the State’s psychologist, stated that Walus “asserts that he cannot change his political beliefs, but he knows the difference between right and wrong”. He had also denounced violence as a means to achieve political objectives. Another psychologist said in a report that Walus expressed remorse for the fact that Hani’s children were fatherless and his wife Limpo a widow, but he showed no remorse for killing the politician. It was said that he still rationalised his actions and insists they were politically motivated. The Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, last year threw the ball back into the hands of Masutha and ordered that the minister had 120 days in which to decide whether Walus should be placed on parole or not. Walus was at first given the death sentence for his role in Hani’s assassination. This was later commuted to a life sentence. He has spent more than 25 years behind bars in the Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre in Pretoria. - Pretoria News