Janse van Rensburg has been one of the UP-Tuks team’s stalwarts over the past few years, winning a number of player of the tournament awards during their international campaigns. She has also played a significant role to ensure that UP-Tuks has become the best women’s sevens club team in South Africa. However, being a realist, she realised that she had become the proverbial “big fish in a small pond”. Or to put it in another way, she felt her game was starting to stagnate. “Don’t get me wrong. I am forever grateful for the guidance and support I got from Delta Drone and Tuks to improve my skills as a rugby player. It certainly helped to get all these opportunities to play internationally. “The reality, however, is that women’s rugby in South Africa is not up to standard when compared to what is happening internationally. “I want to try to understand why that is. One way to do so is to learn from the best. "And who better than from the New Zealanders? I will be here until the end of February. “I have only been at the academy for a few days, and already it feels like I am getting a new perspective as to what it takes to play good rugby. “What is exciting is that I shall certainly be able to bring some new ideas to Tuks which hopefully will help to lift the team’s game to another level.” Janse van Rensburg admitted that she had contemplated playing rugby in France in the hope of getting an opportunity to become part of their national set-up, but she had decided against it. “Who knows, maybe I will consider doing so at a later stage, but for now my main goal is to find ways to become a better player. There are also still some unfulfilled goals that I want to help achieve playing for Tuks.” The UP-Tuks team will this year again be campaigning internationally, and they will be aiming for another strong season. They had a dream season last year, winning two of the seven international tournaments they contested and finishing runners-up twice. UP-Tuks also had a third-place finish. Head coach Riaan van der Merwe is, however, so passionate about the game that he does not only want UP-Tuks to play better rugby, but every women’s club team in South Africa. In March UP-Tuks will be hosting an international tournament. A French team from Bordeaux has already indicated that it will be playing as has the Springbok women’s sevens team. There is also a chance of a team from Botswana competing. African News Agency (ANA)