Pretoria - The last day of the outgoing Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga's term in office on Monday was greeted with emotions and tears among staffers and some in political circles. Msimanga, whose term in office spanned two years since the municipal polls in August 2016, leaves behind a mixed legacy. His tenure in office was riddled with controversy related to irregular appointments and the irregularly awarded tender to an engineering consultancy firm GladAfrica. The biggest scandal to hit his office was when it emerged last year that former chief of staff Marietha Aucamp misrepresented her qualifications by stating that she has a B-Tech degree on a competency assessment form. In some quarters, he was hailed as a champion of anti-corruption, constantly making calls to undo the wrongs committed by the then ANC municipality. The selling of a mayoral house in Muckleneuk at the cost of R5 million and using its proceeds to build RDP houses can be singled out as a feather in Msimanga's cap during his tenure in office. As he marked his last day on Monday, his supporters took to social media to express their heart-felt love for him. Communication officer within the mayor's office Vanessa Barbosa De Sousa wrote on Facebook: "Last day as our executive mayor. I'd be lying if I said that a few tears haven't been shed this morning." Commenting on the status, another user Hester Gill said: "He is moving on to bigger and better things. Thank you for your role in all of this." Msimanga announced his resignation last month as the executive mayor, citing he wanted to focus on his Gauteng premiership candidacy campaign on behalf of the DA. Another social media user Salome Janse van Rensburg posted: "Good luck Solly we are 100% behind you." Msimanga posted an emotional message of goodbye on a WhatsApp group for the mayoral staff. "Today marks my last day as the executive mayor of our city. This has been a rollercoaster ride since we started this term of administration. "We've had excitement and drama, nothing less than memorable and a big experience of love and support, frustration, tears, joy and accomplishment. "For this, I thank you," he wrote.