JOHANNESBURG - Disgruntled members of the African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) will on Friday march to the ANC's National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Irene, Pretoria, to demand the disbandment of the league's provincial and national leadership. The ANC will hold its NEC meeting, which ends on Sunday, at Irene's St George Hotel. Groups of party youths from various provinces, calling themselves the "Revive ANCYL Movement", are pressing to have the league structures dissolved and new task teams appointed leading up to a national elective conference. The long overdue elective conference for new leaders has been postponed numerous times, reportedly due to a lack of quorum and unaudited branches. The last elective conference was held in September 2015 in Johannesburg, where the incumbent Collen Maile was elected president. The Revive ANCYL Movement has held marches to ANC offices in their respective provinces including the party headquarters, Luthuli House in Johannesburg, where they handed over memorandums of demands. Maine has been labeled an "elder" by the members, who want him and his executive committee gone. They accuse him of "burying" the "weakened" ANCYL by concentrating on ANC factional battles instead of fighting for the youth, majority of whom are unemployed and unable to access higher education. Maine is reportedly against the dissolving of ANCYL structures and instead wants to deliver a political report at the next conference. The ANCYL has lost ground at tertiary institutions, with the EFF Student Command gaining popularity and winning some of the Student Representative Council elections. Ntuthuko Makhombothi, an ANCYL member and former SA Students Congress president from eThekhwini region in KwaZulu-Natal, said ANC secretary general Ace Magashule stated in a letter last week that the present ANCYL was not legitimate and that by law, the organisation and all its structures were liquidated and undergoing rehabilitation. "The ANC NEC should stop inviting 'illegitimate leaders' to its meetings or face legal action," Makhombothi said in a statement on behalf of the Revive ANCYL Movement. "The communique implies that the offices of the ANCYL, not only in Luthuli House, but in all other areas, have been occupied against the law. "Furthermore, from its own admission, the ANC NEC and its subordinate structures have contravened the law by allowing illegal structures in their meetings and decision making bodies. "The communication from the secretary general of the ANC does not place any constraints or limitations to the ability of the ANC NEC to disband the illegitimate ANCYL NEC. "The communication confirms our views that this ANCYL has failed to resuscitate the youth league structures and to represent the interests of young people. "We call for all ANC structures, starting at the NEC, to stop inviting the illegitimate youth league leaders to their decision making structures. Failure to uphold this request will result in the Revive the Youth League Movement taking legal action," warned Mthombothi. The league is supposed to hold elective conferences every three years. African News Agency (ANA)